'\" t
.\" @(#)iconv_open.3 1.6 97/02/03 SMI;
'\"macro stdmacro
.nr X
.TH iconv_open 3 "29 Dec 1996"
.SH NAME
iconv_open \- code conversion allocation function
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <iconv.h>
.LP
.BI "iconv_t iconv_open(const char *" tocode,
.if n .ti +5n
.BI "const char *"  fromcode );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "iconv_open" "" "\fLiconv_open\fP \(em code conversion allocation function"
.IX "code conversion allocation function" "" "code conversion allocation function \(em \fLiconv_open\fP"
The
.B iconv_open(\|)
function
returns a conversion descriptor
that describes a conversion
from the 
codeset specified by the string pointed to by the
.I fromcode
argument to the codeset specified by the string pointed to by the
.I tocode
argument.
For state-dependent encodings, the conversion descriptor will be in 
a codeset-dependent initial shift state, ready
for immediate use with the 
.BR iconv (3)
function.
.LP
Settings of
.I fromcode
and
.I tocode
and their permitted combinations are implementation-dependent.
.LP
A conversion descriptor remains valid in a process until that process closes
it.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
Upon successful completion 
.B iconv_open(\|)
returns a conversion descriptor for use on subsequent calls to 
.B iconv(\|).
Otherwise,
.B iconv_open(\|)
returns
.B (iconv_t) \-1
and sets
.B errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
The 
.B iconv_open
function may fail if:
.TP 15
.SB EMFILE
.SB {OPEN_MAX}
files descriptors are currently open in the calling process.
.TP
.SB ENFILE
Too many files are currently open in the system.
.TP
.SB ENOMEM
Insufficient storage space is available.
.TP
.SB EINVAL
The conversion specified by
.I fromcode
and
.I tocode
is not supported by the implementation.
.br
.ne 9
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
=
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR iconv (3),
.BR iconv_close (3),
.BR malloc (3C),
.BR attributes (5)
.SH NOTES
.B iconv_open(\|)
uses
.BR malloc (3C)
to allocate space for internal buffer areas.
.B iconv_open(\|) 
may fail if there is insufficient storage space
to accommodate these buffers.
.LP
Portable applications must assume that conversion descriptors are not
valid after a call to one of the
.B exec
functions.
